Thank you,
and welcome to the second day of WWDC.
As Travis mentioned,
my name is Derek Clegg.
I work in Quartz Imaging Technologies.
I'm the Principal Engineer responsible
for our PDF support in Mac OS X.
So today what we're going
to talk about is what's PDF.
That's the principal focus.
I think a lot of people don't
actually understand what PDF is,
what it does, so we're going to focus
a lot on PDF per se.
And then also we want to
talk about how Mac OS X,
in particular Quartz, uses PDF.
So what's PDF?
Well, all it really is, at the bottom,
is just a file format.
It's a way of specifying
how data goes into a file.
But what it's trying to
do is provide a persistent
representation of document layout.
And what's really important
for us in particular,
and what's very nice about PDF,
is that it's independent
of your software,
your hardware, your operating system.
A PDF file sort of works on Mac OS X,
it works on Mac OS 9,
it works on Windows.
So that's a very valuable thing for us.
So the thing-- PDF is
actually a specification.
It's published by Adobe.
You can go download it from the web.
You can go buy it as a book.
The current version is the 1.3,
second edition.
It's a very nice specification,
unlike some specifications in the world.
And Adobe has just recently
published the 1.4 differences.
This is the document that describes
how PDF 1.4 differs from PDF 1.3.
So they actually haven't
published the 1.4 spec yet,
but they do have information
about what's coming down the road.
So let's talk a little
bit about what PDF,
the problem PDF is trying to solve.
Okay, so we have a document,
we have information we want to convey.
If you think about that,
the basic bottom level is just content.
It's like the words you're using and it's
the images you're using and it's the,
you know,
the line art you're trying to display.
And sometimes it's sufficient
just to have content alone.
A good example of that is HTML.
HTML is a format which has pure content.
It really doesn't have
a strong layout sense.
If your browser decides to use
a different font or position
things on the page in its own way,
it's free to do that.
That's good,
but that's often not sufficient.
And in particular,
you often want to add layout
information into your content stream.
So you want to be able to say, "Okay,
this image appears here and there's
this title here and this text flows
this way around here and this,
you know, this page number appears right
at this point on the bottom
of the page." A traditional
example of this is PostScript.
PostScript represents
document content and layout
information in a very nice way.
PDF is exactly analogous in that sense.
It contains both content
and layout information.
And it sort of--whoops--sort of lives
one step above the actual device.
I mean, you can sort of say, well,
you go from content which is
an abstract representation,
sort of like the words you're using,
to layout which is positioning
information as well.
So, you can say, "Okay,
I'm going to print this thing on a
piece of paper." PDF lives in this
middle area where you have all of the
information you need in terms of content,
but you don't--you're not
tied to a particular device.
You're not tied to a resolution,
to a particular color space, to,
you know, a piece of paper.
So,
PDF and PostScript live in the same place
in terms of the document representation.
So as I mentioned, PDF contains sort of
describes the document.
And there's really two parts
that we're interested in.
In Quartz, we're interested in one part,
and PDF contains an additional part.
The page content is the part
of PDF that actually says,
here's what a page looks like.
This is the titles here,
and there's these 14 lines of text,
and then there's an image.
The document itself, though,
is bigger than that in PDF.
There's sort of additional metadata
that can go into a document.
There's a page that describes information
about the document that's not actually
displayed as part of the page.
So, as an example,
the document can contain
things like annotations,
additional information
that's relative to the page,
which isn't actually
part of the page itself,
hypertext links,
interactive forms--some of you might
have used Acrobat and brought up a
PDF file and been able to fill in a form.
In PDF 1.4, they've added what's known
as logical structure tagging.
This is a mechanism where you can say,
"Oh, on this page,
this is a paragraph and this word
in this paragraph is in Spanish and
this word over here is in,
I don't know, Chinese." And so it's pure
meta information that's not
really part of the page proper.
It's sort of information about the page.
It doesn't affect how
the page is displayed.
The page content itself is
made up of three pieces.
There's text, pretty obviously you need
text to convey information,
vector art, and sampled images.
Now, Quartz 2D,
what we care about in Mac OS X and
on the Quartz 2D part,
we only are interested in page content.
The document content,
while it's very important,
is not something that we can take
advantage of on the level of Quartz 2D.
We want to have a persistent
graphics representation,
so we're concerned
primarily with page content,
and that's what I'm going
to be talking about today.
Some people sort of have
referred to this as dumb PDF,
which is sort of true.
It's the PDF without as much
metadata as you might get if
you generate it from Macrobat,
but that's perfectly appropriate for the
applications we use it for in Quartz 2D.
So let's dive down a little
bit into what is in a page,
what's the page content.
A page description is a way of
representing the page in a device
and resolution independent manner.
What that means is that the
page isn't tied to a particular,
say, screen that you're going to display
on or printer you're going to.
It's independent of that.
It's an abstract specification of
how the document gets laid out.
And it's resolution independent.
You're not tied to a particular
bit depth or color space.
You can go to CMYK or RGB printers.
The document is the same,
independent of the destination.
The contents are
independent of the creator,
which means in particular that all
the PDF that's generated is going
to end up being the same format.
It's not like a special Windows PDF or a
special Adobe PDF or a special Apple PDF.
PDF is the same.
And in particular,
we take that very seriously at Apple.
We're not going to generate special
Apple PDF that only works on
Mac OS X machines or anything like that.
What we generate will work on Acrobat,
on Windows, on Mac, on Unix platforms.
So we want to make sure that we are
generating PDF that is independent of,
in some sense, independent of us,
that works everywhere.
And the page itself is based on the,
the PDF page description is based
on the PostScript imaging model.
Those of you who are familiar with
PostScript might recognize this,
and I'll talk about
this a little bit more.
So the question is,
what's an imaging model?
I mean, when we sort of talk about the
PostScript imaging model or the
Quartz Studio imaging model,
an imaging model is just an
abstract way of saying how you're
going to put things on a page.
so that you get the
result you want to get.
Obviously, an imaging model needs to be
capable of describing simple things,
complex things.
If you want to do anything complicated
like a magazine illustration or an ad
for a magazine or something like that,
you're going to need to have a
relatively sophisticated imaging model.
Unsurprisingly,
you're going to have to have fonts,
you're going to have to have images like
you might get from a digital camera,
and you're going to need vector art.
PDF has a particular imaging model,
a particular way of specifying
how things get put on the page.
Its imaging model is based
on the painter's algorithm,
which is essentially
how a painter paints.
You put down paint on a page,
you put down more paint on top,
what you put down on top
obscures what's underneath,
and you sort of build up your image,
your page,
by putting more important paint up,
and you sort of build from the bottom up.
Now, one thing that's slightly
different in PDF 1.4,
they've added the notion of transparency.
So, it's not, it's,
the paint you put on top
doesn't necessarily completely
obscure what's underneath.
You can think of it as the paint,
sort of like watercolors.
When you put a watercolor down,
you don't obscure what's underneath,
you sort of shade what's underneath.
So, that's the same sort of idea.
In PDF, the imaging model,
you can paint things,
you can paint glyphs,
you can paint vectors,
you can paint images.
Um, that's the idea.
That's sort of their
basic set of three things.
There's nothing else
that's available for you.
Turns out that's actually rich enough for
pretty much everything you want to do.
Um, and the paint, in this metaphor,
is a color, for example,
RGB values or CMYK values.
It could be a grayscale value.
A paint can also be a pattern,
so you might have a replicated sequence
of stars or ducks or something.
And, um, it could be a gradient,
which is, you know,
a smooth transition from one color
to another over a range of space.
Another very important part of the
imaging model is that paint only is
drawn within a current clip region.
This is, again,
if you'll let me extend the metaphor,
this is exactly what a painter does.
You put down some tape,
and when you paint,
you're only going to show the paint
in that region which you've taped off.
This is very valuable when you're
trying to draw complicated images.
I built up a complicated piece of artwork
to be able to clip to a certain region.
The key thing,
and I think the thing that's very
important for PDF is that the PDF and
PostScript imaging models are identical.
Anything you can represent in PostScript,
you can represent in PDF.
So that's very, very powerful.
But that doesn't mean that
they're the same thing.
PDF is a more restricted
format than PostScript.
There's a lot more stuff you can do.
There's different types
of things you can do in
PostScript that you can't do in PDF,
but the end result is that everything
that you can image in PostScript,
you can image in PDF.
So, now we're going to talk a little
bit about a PDF document and
what's actually inside there.
So, the PDF document is the thing
that's like foo.pdf if you look
at it in your Mac OS X machine.
It can contain more than one page,
obviously.
You might have, say, a book, for example,
that you're publishing.
As I mentioned before,
pages can contain text, vector art,
and sampled images,
and then as I mentioned before,
documents may contain this metadata that
tells you information about the pages.
So let's go into that a little bit more,
into the contents of a particular page.
So the vector art is
actually relatively simple,
and yet it's very rich and very powerful.
All vector art is
constructed from curves,
in this case, Bezier curves,
that's the only curve you can use,
and lines.
So you can build up any shape you
want to from curves and lines.
It turns out that's actually
a pretty rich set of,
even though it's simple,
it actually lets you do almost all
vector art that you would like to do.
When you build up a path,
you can stroke it, or you can fill it,
or you can use the path
to specify a clip region.
So you might, for example,
have four curves that you collect
together and create a circle,
and you could fill the circle
and then clip to that and draw
some stuff inside of that,
and so on.
And then another important part,
and this sort of follows through
for each of the pieces of
PDF that you can draw on a page,
is something known as the
current transformation matrix.
This is a transformation
that lets you draw a page.
So this is a transformation
that lets you map,
to sort of essentially
modify the coordinates,
the drawing, from what you specify to
what gets drawn on the page.
So you can change the
transformation matrix,
you can rotate it, or you can scale it,
and what you draw,
what you specify will be drawn through
that transformation matrix onto the page.
So for example, if you wanted to draw
a rotated rectangle,
you could just draw your
rectangle the regular way,
change the transformation
matrix to rotate,
and then when the rectangle
gets put on the page,
it's drawn rotated.
This is actually very powerful.
It's part of the PostScript image.
PostScript uses the same thing,
and it makes it easy to do
complicated drawing simply.
The second part of PDF in terms
of building up the page content
that's important is sample images.
Sample images are just like what
you get from your digital camera.
It's just an array of samples.
This many samples across, 1,078,
this many samples down.
Each sample represents a color.
It's just a value that represents a
color at that point in the rectangle.
PDF has a nice,
rich set of bit depths that it supports.
It supports 1, 2, 4, and 8.
This is pretty much industry standard.
There's also 12-bit images,
but those aren't so common currently.
PDF may and I don't know whether
they'll support that in the future.
Again, just like with vector art,
all the images that are
drawn are mapped through the
current transformation matrix.
That means that you can take your image,
your 10x7 image,
and rotate the transformation matrix.
You can draw the image,
and the image will show up rotated.
You don't actually have to calculate
what the pixel values are as
you rotate the image yourself.
PDF knows how to do that for you,
and you end up with a very nice,
rotated image without actually
having to rotate it yourself.
And then finally, fonts,
so pretty much for page content,
you know, the meat of things is the text,
the information,
the words you're trying to convey,
fonts are used to convey that obviously,
and each font consists
of a set of glyphs,
a glyph is just a representation
of a character in the font,
it's treated from the point of view
of PDF typically as an outline,
just like a piece of
vector art essentially.
As a consequence,
glyphs can be stroked or filled
just like with vector art,
and you can also clip through them,
so you can have a big capital letter
A and you can say clip to that and
everything you draw from that point on
would be clipped through that letter A.
So you can get nice complicated
graphic results using it very simply.
And as with vector art and with images,
glyphs are mapped through the
current transformation matrix,
so if you want to draw a rotated text,
you can do that simply,
the same font can be used to draw
a skewed text or a scaled text,
so everything sort of
goes through the context.
So if you want to draw a rotated text,
you can do that simply,
the same font can be used to draw
a skewed text or a scaled text,
so everything sort of goes
through the context of the text.
To the left is an image that
appears for the internet server,
which; should appear
for the internet server.
Now fonts are actually a
big thing in the industry.
There's lots of different types of fonts
that have come through over the years.
The big ones are the ones
from Adobe and TrueType.
Adobe Type 1 is innate.
Obviously the Adobe ones are part of PDF.
Adobe Type 1 is fully supported in PDF.
The Adobe Type 1 Multiple Master as well.
Adobe, the CFF, Compact Font Format,
is also supported.
That's essentially sort
of a variation of Type 1,
but it's a smaller format.
It's used as the basis for OTF fonts.
Adobe Type 0 is sort of a
container for CID fonts.
CID fonts are used for Chinese, Japanese,
Korean, Vietnamese languages.
Essentially any language where
you have a large number of glyphs,
typically in the order of many thousands,
to represent the language.
This is a very important thing for, say,
the Japanese market,
where you want to be able
to support various forms of
Japanese fonts that have many,
many glyphs in them.
And then, of course, TrueType,
probably an old standard for most of you.
[Transcript missing]
There are cases when,
for copyright reasons or a variety,
maybe user choice, it's impossible or not
reasonable to embed the font.
So PDF, unlike PostScript,
PDF actually also lets you
specify metadata about a font.
So you may put a reference into your
document that you're using Optima,
but you might not, for some reason,
embed Optima.
But you can include enough information
in the PDF document that allows
some other system to fo the font,
to create an approximate font that
looks very close to the original font.
And this is really valuable when
you are in a situation where,
for some reason,
you can't embed the font or you
have files that don't have it.
You get a pretty close look,
it's not 100%, but
it's a lot better than,
for example, in PostScript where if
you didn't have the font,
you get Courier, which looked awful.
Some of you may actually remember that.
[Transcript missing]
So there's two major types of color
spaces that are interesting in PDF.
There's device-dependent color.
It's...
It's used in the situations where
you're not as concerned with the
fidelity of the color representation.
In general, we,
because we're very interested in
high fidelity color reproduction,
aren't too keen on encouraging it,
but it is available.
There's Device Gray, Device RGB,
Device CMYK.
The device independent colors,
basically the calibrated colors,
are also supported.
And in that case, there's Calibrated
Gray and Calibrated RGB.
L*, A*, B*,
which is a color science color
space that you could probably forget
about and never be affected by.
And then finally, the important one,
which is ICC Profiles.
Same sort of thing we use in ColorSync.
They're much more common nowadays
than the other two color spaces,
and they do provide for
high calibrated color.
In addition, PDF lets you do two other
special color spaces.
There's the index color space
where what you're specifying at
that point is each value is an
index into a table of other colors.
So a good example of this is GIF images.
Some of you may be familiar
with that where you really,
your image is only 256 values,
but each value from 0 to 255 is an
index into some other color table.
So PDF has that support in there.
It's perhaps not as
used as much nowadays.
But it is available.
And then separation and device in.
These are essentially the same thing.
Separation is like device one.
What it allows you to do,
this is used when you're
for printing typically.
You often will want to
do a CMYK printing pass.
And you might have another
separation or two or three,
maybe an orange.
CMYK is cyan, magenta, yellow, black.
So because it's difficult to
get a pure orange or a pure
purple or some other color.
You might have an additional separation.
So PDF allows you to do this.
This is really for high
end printing applications.
It's not typical for most use,
but it is available.
Okay, so we've talked at this
point about the PDF content,
what goes into it, the painting,
the color and so on.
So you have now sort of you can imagine
maybe to build up a magazine page.
You have all these images and all this
vector art and all this text and these
fonts and all this other stuff in there.
And that could be huge.
And then you have the PDF file.
And the first thing that
you run into immediately is,
well how do I keep the file
size to be a reasonable size?
Fortunately,
PDF has built into it a way to
compress the data in the PDF file.
And some of you may or may not
have opened up a PDF file and
noticed it's lots of binary data.
And you think, oh my goodness,
this is a binary format.
It's actually, I mean it's,
it is a binary format in some sense.
But really what you're seeing is
the compressed data typically.
Not necessarily some sort of weird
structure that you can't understand.
So there's two mechanisms
for compressing data in PDF.
There's the lossless one,
the case which you typically
want for page content where you
don't want to lose information.
And then for images,
there's both lossless
mechanisms and lossy.
Lossy is really very valuable
for say images with color.
It's basically the
basis of JPEG and so on.
So for page content,
there's two typical ways.
There's LZW, which is,
many of you are familiar with that
from the patent issues and so on,
compression.
And then there's flake compression,
it's also called,
it's available like Zlib
and stuff like that.
This is another,
this is a really much more common
method because it's patent free
that's being used more and more now.
But both of these are very,
can be very powerful in their own ways
and are supported natively in PDF.
For images,
it's a little bit more complicated.
For lossless compression of images,
which is typically good for grayscale,
there's a PNG equivalent.
PNG specifies a way to use flight
compression for encoding image data,
so there's an equivalent
way in PDF to specify that,
although PDF doesn't allow you
to embed a PNG image directly.
It lets you embed the PNG data directly.
For grayscale proper, typically one bit,
a fax for example,
there's the CCIT group 3 and
group 4 compression mechanisms,
and also run length, not so interesting,
but it's available.
And then in 1.4,
there's this new cool thing,
which is actually going to
replace CCITT group 3 and
group 4 in the industry,
called JBIG2,
which is a way of compressing
specifically sort of tailored to fax data
in a very nice way that's a lot great,
gives you a lot better compression
than CCITT fax compression.
But that's in 1.4.
The two lossy ways of compressing,
there's JPEG for color,
is the most interesting case.
Grayscale doesn't compress
very well with JPEG.
And of course, Grayscale,
you can compress it
with JPEG or with JBIG2.
There's a mechanism for JBIG2 which lets
you do lossy compression of Grayscale.
Now we have a PDF document.
You have everything's compressed,
it's all ready.
So let's talk a little bit about
what it's like to actually create
a PDF document or display it.
So I wrote a lot of the code that
creates both PostScript and PDF files.
And this first one is a big,
big advantage.
You can do single pass file
generation when you're generating PDF.
That means that--well,
basically PDF has a way of
referencing objects before they're
actually specified in the file.
So you can--if you
want to write an image,
you can say, "Oh,
here's an image that I want
you to display now." And then
sometime down the road,
you can actually write
out the image data.
The problem--the reason that's good
is because you can actually--you
can actually--you can actually--you
can actually--you can actually
sort of create the file as you're
going along and when you're ready,
you can dump the image data.
You don't have to sort of store
the image data someplace else
and then copy it back into the
file when you need to display it.
I mean, PostScript has not one pass file
generation and it's terrible.
You do--and it puts
lots of temporary files,
you're copying stuff all the time,
it's a big mess.
PDF is really great because
you can do one pass,
done.
You have the output.
This is really good when you're
spooling and you're spooling large
files because you're spooling time to
the printer is going to be a lot faster.
So you can do a lot faster.
The sort of the--the corollary
to that is that what you end up
with when you're trying to display
the document is random access.
It's not like PostScript where you
have to sort of start at the beginning
and seek to the information you need.
PDF has a cross-reference table
at the end that tells you where
every object in the document lives.
So you can quickly go to
page number so and so,
image number so and so,
and pretty much constant time
independent of the number of pages,
the file size and so on.
So that's a really big one
when you're displaying.
It's actually a big one.
And then you can do a
lot of things with it.
So you can do a lot of things with it.
So you can do a lot of things
And what's also nice about
PDF is that it's-- and each page
is independent of other pages.
Those of you who might have
worked with PostScript before,
know that to display page number 355,
you pretty much need to display
all the pages up until then.
Unless, you know,
you sort of hope that the
document structure and comments
are correct and the pages really
are independent and so on.
But if a bad PostScript file,
you've got to display everything
until that page in order to
make sure you know it's correct.
PDF encapsulates each page
as an independent entity.
They're not-- they don't refer
to pages prior or after them.
So this is really good for display.
You can quickly display the 30th page,
the 300th page in constant time.
I've talked a little bit
about PostScript and PDF.
And I want to talk a little bit
more about the differences there,
those of you-- this might be
more interesting to those of
you who are more familiar with
PostScript and not so much with PDF.
PDF is really an absolute-- it's not an
absolute description of where things go.
It's not a calculated
description of where things go.
So PostScript allows you to
calculate the positions of things,
it allows you to measure
strings and do divide by two
to center and stuff like that.
PostScript is a calculated
way of displaying content.
PDF is an absolute way.
And so that's actually a big
difference for those of you who
are familiar with PostScript.
You need to sort of know where
everything's going to end up in
order to generate your PDF file.
Unlike with PostScript,
where you sort of figure
it out on the printer.
On the other hand,
it's good to not have to do that
because it's less work if you know
where everything's supposed to be.
Of course, PDF can contain hyperlinks,
metadata, annotations,
things that are going to be used
when you're displaying it in Acrobat
or some other interactive mechanism.
PostScript doesn't have that.
PostScript is pretty much pure content,
pure layout.
It doesn't have this sort
of additional information.
And also PDF, unlike PostScript,
is a really strictly
defined file structure.
It's hard to write a PDF file by hand.
It's really easy to write
PostScript files by hand.
But that's good because that
means that a computer can read and
process a PDF file very rapidly.
PostScript,
you have to do a lot of processing
and parsing and interpretation.
So what that means is, of course,
you get, as I mentioned before,
random access of your data
and page independence.
That's a really key feature.
And then, as I mentioned before,
the font foeing, for example,
PDF files will contain additional
information that might be
used in the case that you
have to substitute in some sense.
You can't fully get what you need because
the PDF file doesn't embed the font.
So it has extra stuff that allows you to
synthesize more correctly what you get.
Not just a replacement with Courier,
but a replacement with a Sans Serif
multiple master font that's tweaked just
the right way so it looks pretty good.
So that's sort of a big, you know,
wide overview of what PDF, what contains,
what's interesting about PDF from
the point of view of Quartz 2D.
So the real question
at that point is like,
why did we choose to
use PDF of all things?
I mean, we could have gone out and said,
well, we want a persistent
graphics file format,
let's write our own or let's use
PNG or something weird like that.
So what we wanted is something
clearly that was robust.
We needed something that was,
that people in the industry use,
not just us,
but everybody in the industry.
[Transcript missing]
So how do we use it?
Well, at the bottom,
the most important part is in Quartz 2D.
We looked at the PDF imaging model.
We said, OK,
that's what we want as our imaging model.
We want to use the same ideas
that PDF has to build up
the Quartz 2D imaging model.
So we took the ideas
wholesale and we said,
this is how we're going
to draw on the screen,
on the piece of paper, and so on.
As a consequence, we also said,
obviously, we want this to be our
persistent graphics format.
We want to be able to say,
if we're drawing on the screen
and using this imaging model,
we want to write it out to PDF so
we can actually get good results
when we go to the printer and so on.
And what we also are
not interested in doing,
we don't want to say, oh, OK, well,
this is good.
And we're just going to stay here.
We're going to-- now
we're going to diverge.
We're going to make our own PDF.
We don't want to do that.
That's bad.
We want to track the Adobe standard.
We want to be in sync with them,
keep as close as possible with them.
So that we don't diverge
from their model.
Because we're using their model.
And we're sort of want to pay deference
to that and make sure that we track
their standard as closely as possible.
So, what we have right now in PDF,
sorry in Quartz 2D is support
for the 1.2 specification and
much of the 1.3 specification.
The 1.4 spec is going to be
coming out soon and we want to
be able to track that as well,
so we're, you know,
we're really committed to trying to make
sure that we keep on top of the 1.3 spec,
1.4 spec and make sure that
we have support and that our
model matches what PDF provides.
And what I want to
emphasize in particular,
as you can see here,
we're interested in not all of the spec.
As I mentioned before,
the spec is actually very
complicated and large,
there's lots of pieces to it.
A lot of it is document,
the document model specific.
It's sort of the part that says,
you know, here's how annotations work,
here's how hypertext
links work and so on.
So, we're not on the Quartz 2D level
interested in that part of it.
That's something that's a high priority.
We're interested in
the higher level thing,
for example,
for Acrobat or other programs that
might be doing interactive PDF display.
We're, since we're focused on the
persistent graphics format,
we're tailoring our support
specifically to the part of the
document model that's relevant.
And as you can see on the other axis,
the imaging model,
sort of all of the imaging model,
however, we want to keep that
going up all the way.
Now, in addition to Quartz 2D,
which is a big part of our PDF usage,
Mac OS X uses PDF in other ways,
mostly by leveraging what
we provide in Quartz 2D.
Pretty much in Mac OS X,
PDF is our high-fidelity digital master
recording of application drawing.
So, the idea is that if an application
draws on the screen a certain
way using the course 2D APIs,
what they get out, if they choose to,
is a PDF file that represents
that drawing precisely.
So that if we took that PDF file
and brought it up in Acrobat,
they would see the same thing in Acrobat
that they're seeing on the screen.
That's a really important feature
for us to make sure that the
drawing that you do to the screen
ends up in the PDF file precisely.
Including things like all
the fonts being correct,
all the colors being calibrated,
everything that you've
actually asked for.
[Transcript missing]
So just to summarize,
I've talked about a bunch of
different parts of PDF and what
it's like and then how we use it.
It really is, it's really powerful.
It's a super format.
I like it a lot, it turns out,
and it provides a really good high
fidelity representation of information.
It's really good for color calibration,
font preservation,
all the stuff you need to make sure that
what you're drawing on the screen matches
exactly what you're printing to the page.
And it's our native format for
persistent graphics representation.
We want to make sure that we keep
it as our way of representing what's
drawn persistently into a file.
And all of the Quartz 2D imaging model
is built on top of the PDF imaging model.
There's another talk later,
I think it's right after this one,
which goes more in depth into
the Quartz 2D APIs and how some
of that relates directly to what
I've been talking here about.
We're pretty consistent in terms
of what you're going to see.
So, we're going to be looking
at the Quartz 2D APIs,
what you can do with the Quartz 2D APIs,
with what you can do,
what the imaging model is in PDF.
So, there's almost a one-to-one
mapping in some cases,
because we really think it's
a very valuable imaging model,
very important format to support.
So if you want more information
about PDF in particular,
go to the Adobe website,
not the Apple website.
They have the PDF spec,
they have the 1.4 differences,
you can download a bunch of
other information about PDF.
It's got a lot of detail there
that you might want to know about.
I think you can buy the PDF 1.3
specification from Amazon.
I certainly think you can download
it from here as a PDF file.
And I think at this point
I want to bring back Travis,
who will talk a little
bit about the roadmap,
and then we'll open it up
for question and answers.
Thank you, Derek.
Yeah,
before we go to question and answer,
I just want to be able to
point you to some of the other
graphic-related sessions at WWDC.
Obviously we're in 108, PDF, Quartz,
and Mac OS X.
As Derek mentioned, a follow-on session,
which is in Room A1 at 10:30,
is the 2D Graphics Using Quartz.
If you want to empower your
application with the ability to
create PDFs and leverage our services,
that's the session you need to attend.
We'll be talking about the Quartz
2D API and tell you how to use it.
Then also, a common request we get,
Quartz-related request we get from
developers is anti-alias text.
And we have several sessions that
are going to tell you how to use the
existing text APIs in Mac OS X and
have them leverage the Quartz 2D API.
And then we have the Quartz 2D API,
which is going to be able
to leverage Quartz for the
final drawing or rendering,
where you get the nice subpixel
anti-aliasing that Mac OS X is
capable of providing.
That's session 110.
Then we have session 117,
which is going to be all
about Image Capture Framework,
which is a new framework that
allows your application to
interact with digital cameras.
It's very, very interesting.
You've seen it demoed in several of
the introductory sessions yesterday.
Next we have color sync.
Color sync is very, very important.
One of the sort of key hidden
features in Mac OS X's imaging
model in particular Quartz is the
fact that it's fully color managed.
So if you're using the Quartz 2D APIs to
draw your graphics or you're doing
something like drawing a PDF on screen,
Mac OS X knows how to interact with
color sync and provide high level
color management to that content.
And it is something that's fairly
simple to do and we want to spend time
in the color sync session educating
developers on how they need to do
things like tag profiles and understand
how the color workflow works internally.
So that you can make any application
on Mac OS X be fully color managed
regardless if it's displaying
content on screen or sending the
content out to an output device.
We have another session on text so
that if you still want to learn how to
do nice anti-alias text using Quartz,
there's some content in
the text on Mac OS X.
We have a session on text on the
Mac OS X session which although
it talks about some of the
other text APIs such as MLTE,
those are fully interoperable in terms of
having the graphics displayed by Quartz.
And then a very interesting session is
404 which is OpenGL high performance 2D.
If you're doing anything
with large bitmaps and you
want very high performance,
getting those bitmaps on screen,
then you need to see this session.
Some very,
very interesting demonstrations.
Some very interesting concepts
will be expressed at this session.
And then we also have a printing
session where we'll talk about
Mac OS X printing architecture
and we'll cover printing from the
perspective of Carbon developers.
We'll even get into a little bit
for developers who are familiar
with BSD and we'll also talk a
little bit about Cocoa printing.
Finally,
we have a very interesting session,
which is the Graphics and
Imaging Tips and Tricks.
If you're a Carbon developer and
you want to learn how to fully
leverage Quartz in your application,
this will be an important
session for you to attend.
We have a lot of content relating to
Quick Draw and Quartz integration,
and also cover certain cases
like how do you print content.
Also talk about the printing
context on Mac OS X,
which are a little bit different from
what you might be used to in Mac OS 9.
So it's also a very, very good session.
Then we'll finish the graphic sessions at
this Worldwide Developer Conference with
a feedback forum Friday at 2 p.m.